---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/encyclopedia/creatures/intelligent-monsters/demons/blood-demon/"}
---

As with all [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Intelligent Monsters/Demons/Demons\|Demons]], blood demons are immensely powerful denizens of another world, but luckily are exceedingly rare. Any demon encountered in the Shard is a hitchhiker from the [[Encyclopedia/Atlas (Regions)/The Infinite Garden\|The Infinite Garden]], though they originated in [[Encyclopedia/Atlas (Regions)/Ancient Hell\|Ancient Hell]]. 

Most blood demons exist in a state of hibernation, and only become active under unknown conditions. They can take on nearly any form, but they have no particular control over their appearance - it simply varies immensely from individual to individual. 

A blood demon's particular strength is _absolute potential._ A blood demon will grow larger and more powerful the more foes it consumes, mutating and becoming more terrible with every kill. Under most conditions, this happens slowly as the demon hunts and feeds on its own. However, in extenuating circumstances, the demon gains access to prey items far beyond its own weight class, and can 'ascend' with terrifying speed. There is no known upper limit to this ability. Therefore, were a blood demon to be sighted in the Shard, as soon as it was recognized as such, it would be hunted down with swift and extreme measures. If there was a delay in assuring its demise, hostilities between nations would cease, and the demigods themselves would abandon their abodes to come and make sure of the creature's destruction. The last occurrence of a blood demon surviving this reactionary purging resulted in the short-lived rise of the [[Encyclopedia/Organizations/Cult of Voul\|Cult of Voul]], and the subsequent alliance of many would-be foes and rivals to assure its utter annihilation at the [[Encyclopedia/History/Death of Voul\|Death of Voul]].

Most blood demons are consumed by a psychological need to feed, and have no qualms about how they get their meals. While this typically manifests as rampant aggression, blood demons will also resort to pathological lying in any situation where they cannot overwhlem their foes with sheer force alone...until they become strong enough that that is no longer the case.

Allegedly, [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Azamathra\|Azamathra]] herself is an obscenely powerful blood demon who consumed all of [[Encyclopedia/Atlas (Regions)/Ancient Hell\|Ancient Hell]] long ago.