---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/encyclopedia/atlas-regions/fungal-drifts/"}
---

Fungal Drifts are a type of environment found exclusively in the [[Encyclopedia/Atlas (Regions)/1st ring\|1st ring]], though the spore clouds they produce can float hundreds of kilometers beyond their borders.

These regions are dominated by fungi that feed on the strong ambient magic constantly emitting from the [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Golyaht\|Mad god]]. The uncontrolled effusion of energy brought on by his fugue has caused these fungi to grow out of all control, forming dense mats, while the fallen spores create a layer that is waist-high, in places. The fruiting bodies of the fungus are vast, helical spires that rise taller than elder oaks. Each is riddled with pockmarks which are constantly emitting the vast number of spores which give Fungal Drifts their name.

These spore storms are similar in intensity to sandstorms. Visibility becomes practically zero. The air turns bile-green, and becomes so laden with spore-dust that unprotected animals can suffocate to death. While these storms are at their most intense within the fungal drifts themselves, the dense bio-haze they generate can travel on the winds, far outside of the drift's borders. While the fungi cannot permanently thrive in areas of lower magical saturation, a spore storm often will cause a temporary bloom of fungi in effected areas, coating surfaces in a thin sheath of spongy, fibrous mass. Eventually, the fungus will deplete local ambient magic, and die off. In places, this is a regular seasonal occurence, effectively causing the borders of the Drifts to expand and contract in a predictable rhythm.

In places, the spore storms become infected by Golyaht's subconscious psyche, and intelligent life - even if protected from the physical aspects of the spores - may suffer hallucinations of the spores burrowing into their skin, or of other lost travelers screaming for help. Explorers are advised to remember that the fungus has no need of living hosts, and that they can differentiate their actual companions from hallucinatory ones by listening for coughing and gagging. Many other psychic phenomena have also been reported in the drifts, but appear to be wildly inconsistent.

The drifts support a surprising array of animal life, like most inner-ring environments. But, like most inner-ring environments, mutation is so common amongst the wildlife that it should be assumed that any accounts of these creatures will differ from what is actually encountered. That said, here are some of the more common creatures that might be found here:

- **Rotbells.** The inner regions of the drifts can become so saturated with spores, that it affects the buoyancy of air. These jellyfish-like creatures are light enough to float and 'swim' through the fungal fogs. Most filter-feed on the spores themselves, but some are adapted to feed on other rotbells, or even bear paralytic tentacles to capture larger prey.
- **Spiral worms:** Grazing worms that are named for their feeding habit. They form a burrow in the fungal mat, and emerge their head to eat outward in wide circles. They are known for their incredible size, as larger specimens can be as thick as a man's thigh, and the exposed portion of their body can be over a dozen meters long. It is unknown how massive they may truly be, under the surface. They are, however, blind, and will often trip humanoid travellers inadvertently, especially when visibility is low.
- **Whistlers:** Strange creatures that could be mistaken for intricate stone structures, whistlers have a long, needle-like pipe through which they direct air, and a huge, boulder-like shell. They drag themselves around at a snail's pace, and indeed, may even be a heavily mutated type of snail. Keep your distance, however, as they will opportunistically crush and devour sleeping travellers, just as they do to spiral worms, their natural prey.