---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/encyclopedia/creatures/deities-and-demigods/demigods/"}
---

Demigods are extremely powerful beings who can directly harness and utilize magic in its most primal and potent forms. They can, with enough time and effort, create new mortal races, and can manage the flow of energy as it relates to maintaining a stable world. They cannot, however, generate the wellsprings of raw power that a [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Gods\|Gods]] can utilize to fashion new worlds from nothing.

In the first days of the Shard, when [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Golyaht\|Golyaht]] was gathering allies to help him steal his little world, he gathered six demigods to aid him. Five of them were each assigned to lord over one of [[Game Rules/Magic/The Five Spheres of Magic\|The Five Spheres of Magic]]. [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Nephrys\|Nephrys]] was made Sovereign of Storms, and [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Haldos\|Haldos]] was made Sovereign of Earth. [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Usen-Ai\|Usen-Ai]] was made Sovereign of Void, but amongst the three remaining demigods, not a one was Fire-aligned. [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Harkunon\|Harkunon]], also of Storms, stepped down, content to play out his days as the arbiter, an impartial helper and messenger. [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Nur\|Nur]] and [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Jagrith\|Jagrith]], though, both of Life, drew lots for the title of Sovereign of Blood. Nur was victorious, while feral Jagrith was painfully recast into the Sovereign of Fire. 