---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/encyclopedia/creatures/nightmares/nightmares/"}
---

Nightmares are not born of flesh and blood, but instead coalesce from the venomous dreams of the [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Deities and Demigods/Golyaht\|Mad God]]. These living manifestations of his hatred roam the Shard, a testament to the divine malice that festers at its heart. While some Nightmares recur, becoming blighted lineages, others emerge as singular horrors - fleeting echoes of the Mad God's enduring spite.

Even so, Nightmares can be broadly sorted into a few major categories:
- **Tyrants** embody Golyaht's thirst for dominion. They suffer from a primordial need to subjugate others - not for practical ends, but to satisfy their own dark hubris. Rarely will they kill outright; instead, they abduct and enslave their victims to cruel, and often pointless fates. They are more likely than other nightmares to be capable of higher thought, and some can even speak, but this should not be misconstrued as true reason. Tyrants, fundamentally, cannot be bargained with, and are just as much slaves to their nature as more bestial nightmares.
- **Sycophants** are grotesque echoes of the adoration Golyaht craves. They are mindless things, and endlessly pantomime acts of worship for their creator. Many are pitiable creatures, dying pathetically as they are unable to cease their droning hymns to the Mad God to even eat or defend themselves. However, others will assault mortals, infecting them with their own vile essence, turning them into more sycophants. It is unknown whether any part of the victims' former identity survives this, but all agree it is a mercy to put an end to such beings.
- **Grudges** are manifestations of Golyaht's raw spite and the rage of his betrayal. Grudges are driven by a bitter, single-minded need to destroy anything beloved by the Mad god's enemies - and in his fury, he believes all thinking beings to be his enemies. A grudge's life is defined solely by the pain it can inflict, the lives it can take, and the legacies it can erase. While some grudges will begin seeking destruction the moment they are born, others will accumulate, and attack inner-ring civilizations or the lairs of the demigods in great waves, usually in concert with the appearance of a **Pomp.**
- **Pomps** are reflections Golyaht's deep-seated arrogance. These monstrous beings radiate authority, compelling other Nightmares to form armies, and build fortified citadels from which they can exert their power. Despite the apparent intellect these tasks would seem to demand, Pomps are even less reasonable than tyrants, and will never deign to communicate with non-nightmares for any reason. Pomp kingdoms which encroach too near to civilization are frequent targets for raids by elite mercenaries, or by [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Intelligent Monsters/Dragons/Dragons\|Dragons]] or [[Encyclopedia/Creatures/Intelligent Monsters/Deep Mothers\|Deep Mothers]] trying to clear their territories of foreign blights. However, this is a massive undertaking, and many other Pomp kingdoms have become entrenched and unyielding in the deep expanses of the inner rings, where it is too difficult to muster the forces needed to uproot them.